# CFG_Project
This is Jose Mata's submission for COMP 540 - Automata "CFG Project". 

Fall 2024, Bridgewater State University

## Instructions for Running the Python File
Run the "CFG_jose_mata.py" file with Python 3.12.2 64-bit

## What the Program Does
Upon running the program, you'll be prompted to select one of the following options (or steps). Simply choose a number from 1 to 5 to select an option. You'll be able to choose as many options as desired until you choose option 5, which terminates the program. The following are the choices, each of which is explained in further detail below: 
* '1' to produce a random string from the CFG shown in the assignment instructions.
* '2' to display the production rules of this grammar.
* '3' to check if a string can be generated by the grammar.
* '4' to change the grammar.
* '5' to exit the pogram.

Any input besides a number from 1 to 5 will result in an "Answer is invalid." message

### Option 1 - Produce a Random String Based on the Grammar
This option will use the grammar that the program is currently working with to produce a random string. At the start of the program, the grammar is the following:
* S : AB | aS
* A : aA | b 
* B : bB | a

If you change the grammar into another valid grammar by choosing Option 4, the subsequent resulting strings generated by Option 1 will be generated using the newest grammar that the program is working with. 

### Option 2 - Display the Production Rules of this Grammar
This option will display the grammar that the program is currently working with. At the start of the program, the grammar is the following:
* S : AB | aS
* A : aA | b 
* B : bB | a

If you change the grammar into another valid grammar by choosing Option 4, the subsequent selections of Option 2 will display the newest gramma that the program is working with. 

### Option 3 - Check if a String can be Generated by a Grammar
This option has the program ask you to enter a string. This option is yet to be developed. 

### Option 4 - Change the Grammar
This option will allow you to change the "sets" of valid replacements for 'S', 'A', and 'B'. For example, at the start of the program, letter 'S' has two sets: AB and aS.Please make sure to:
* Separate each set from the next with a space. 
* Use only the variables and/or terminals: 'S', 'A', 'B', 'a', and 'b'
* **IMPORTANT: This program does not have a check to ensure that the new grammar is able to reach a state of all terminals, so please make sure that the new grammar can reach this state before changing the grammar and option 1. Else, the program will call an infinite number of recursions until it reaches the maximum default limit of recursions in Python or until it crashes.**

### Option 5 - Terminate the Program
The program finishes. Next time the program is run, the initial grammar is reset to:
* S : AB | aS
* A : aA | b 
* B : bB | a
